Hey everyone, my name is Steve and it is an honor for me to be here this week with you for this week's Gospel of Mark takeaway. And this week we are looking at Mark chapter 11, verses 13 through 15.
We're looking at Jesus in a question and answer session on the question of who really has 12 verses in the Bible.
as full authority, okay?
Now, I don't know if anyone has ever asked you a question with an ulterior motive, but just think about that for a minute. Has anyone ever asked you a question and you knew they had a different motive?
Maybe they were asking you a question because they wanted to see how you were going to answer so they could challenge your authority. Maybe they were asking you a question so
Um, so that eventually they could just talk or one of my favorites is someone asked you a question for a friend. They're asking for a friend and eventually it becomes very obvious that the question
The question is for them. But no matter what scenario you've been in, we're seeing Jesus in familiar territory again with the scribes, the chief priests, and the elders. And they're asking him a question today.
And based on authority. And so the bookends of this passage start in chapter 11, verses 27. And we're going to read actually from verses 27 and 28.
So if you'll follow with me, Mark chapter 11, verses 28, they said, you know,
And they say to him, By what authority are you doing these things? And who gave you this authority to do these things?
But Jesus answered and said to them, I also will ask you one question, then answer me.
And I will tell you by what authority I do these things. The baptism of John was it from heaven or from men. Answer me.
So let me just set the scene for you real quick. This is again, you know, a key week in Jewish tradition. And so it's Holy Week and Jerusalem is filled with
is filled with a lot more people than it normally is. And so Jesus is there, he's teaching, he's healing, and all of a sudden they're seeing Jesus become very attractive to
of to other people and they're starting to say, wait a minute, our authority is starting to go. And so they find a time to question Jesus and they say, by what authority do you do?
You do these things. Now, let me break this down real quick.
The idea of these things. Think about this week that has happened. Jesus's triumphal entry. Jesus cleansing the temple. Jesus continuing to teach and heal and so forth.
And so they're saying, "By what authority do you do these things?" Because you haven't been with us. We didn't give you this authority. And their question, does it come from a pure
a pure motive. You think about this group of people. They're supposed to be the group that is shepherding others religiously. They're supposed to be the group that is caring
caring for everyone, but really they have a selfish motive when they ask this question of Jesus and they want to know, you know, by what authority do you do these things? If it would come
come from a sincere place and this question will be okay, but it really doesn't. And so they question his authority and they ask him again, by what authority do you do these things?
But I have a question for you and for me as we all read and watch this, as you watch this. The question is, does Jesus really have full authority in our own life?
own life.
You know, that's a great question. Think about that for a second. Does Jesus have full authority in your life? You know, does he have full authority? Does he have partial authority?
Does he have almost no authority? Even as we're looking at these religious leaders question Jesus, you know, we could kind of turn this question for ourselves.
ourselves and say, have we given Jesus full authority?
It's really easy to give Jesus full authority when we say he's coming again for us one day and we believe that we know that's true and we're going to celebrate but it's easy to give him full authority when
Already when we talk about that, it's easy to give Jesus full authority when we talk about, you know, the fact that our sins are forgiven. But then let's just switch gears a little bit. Do we
But do we give Jesus full authority when it comes to, you know, what we watch or, you know, what we're doing when no one's looking? Do we give Jesus full authority?
Authority when we're thinking about, you know, the things that we say in our tongue. Do we give Jesus full authority when it comes to difficult and complex issues like our sexuality? You know, it's easy.
And it was easy to say Jesus has full authority for the things that we want. But it's a great question. Does Jesus have full authority in our lives? And so as they asked Jesus' question,
And they kind of pretend like they don't have the answer and they want to walk away. And so because, you know, they asked Jesus two questions, Jesus going back.
Going back to verse 30 says, you asked me two questions. Basically, I'll ask you one. The baptism of John, was it from heaven? No.
Now, they're stuck. And this is how Jesus does. He always answers, but never in the way you think he's going to. Because if they say that it was from heaven, then Jesus is stuck.
Jesus would say, well, why didn't you believe him? Why didn't you follow him? And so they knew they couldn't say that. But if they say that it was for men, then they knew that the people would be upset because they believed John 3, 16 and 1
And to be a prophet, they believe him to have, you know, holy divine authority as he was there teaching before Jesus came. And so they knew they were stuck. And so they kind of pretended like,
We can't say anything and so maybe we'll walk away. But I love Jesus because he doesn't let him walk away. He doesn't let him get away that easy just by saying that.
saying that and saying, we don't know, because Jesus knew in his heart they actually did know. And so instead of letting them walk away, Jesus says, hold on, I'm not really finished with you yet. And Jesus goes,
Jesus goes on to tell one of the greatest stories that would relate to them. He tells a story about a man who owns a vineyard. And he starts to break this story down. Now, if you
If you told a story about a man who owned a vineyard and leased it out in 2021 in South Florida, that story would go over like a lead balloon. It would not be good, okay? People would not
People would not be able to relate to that story. However, the
For what Jesus is going to do. This is a great story not only for these religious leaders But anyone who else was around and listening because Israel was often compared
compared in this way. And so this was a perfect story and a perfect scenario. As a matter of fact, Israel is most often compared to a vineyard. If you look in Psalms 8, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 1
Psalms 80 verses eight and nine, there's a great comparison about how Israel is being compared to a vineyard and how it's stewarded. So Jesus tells a story that he knows is going to get
to get right to the heart of anyone who's listening, but specifically these religious leaders. And I love this because it's a great concept for you and me. See, when our hearts are hard,
He doesn't just let us go. He doesn't just let us go. He doesn't
He doesn't just let us, you know, quietly slip away. He gives us a chance and he keeps giving us a chance to soften our heart towards him. And so for these leaders, instead of letting them walk away,
Jesus tells a story that's going to get right to the heart of it. And just like He deals with us,
He deals with them he doesn't just let him walk away says hey let me tell you a story because i'm going to give you one more chance even though your group with hearts that are very hard i'm going to give you a chance to come through
He would come to me and soften your heart towards me. And so he starts to break this story down. And it's the same again for us. You know, Jesus does the same thing for us. But as he starts to break
He starts to break this story down. He talks about the vineyard and he talks about how a man leaves it. And again, how he went away and he sent servants to collect.
And as he sent servant after servant, they were tortured, they were beaten. And those are your liking to the people that came before Jesus.
Or Jesus, even we think about Old Testament prophets who suffered. People like Jeremiah, people like Isaiah Zachariah, who suffered some horrible fates. Even John the Baptist.
And we think about how his life ended. Those were all pictures of people who came before Jesus. And then he gets to it where he says, and then the person
A person who owned the vineyard sent his son, right?
And as Jesus tells this story, I can't even imagine the emotion that Jesus would have to tell this story with because he knows he's talking about himself.
And just imagine the emotion of Jesus because he knows at the end of the week, this is the fate that he's going to suffer. But still,
He tells this story to those religious leaders and as he starts to tell it to them, they start to realize that this story is about us and they can't say anything. If you look in my
2021, look in Mark chapter 1
Verse 12 as he finishes the story and even switches gears to a different parable about the stone which the builders rejected that has now become the chief cornerstone
We look at their response in verse 12.
It says, and they sought to lay hands on him.
But feared the multitude, for they knew he had spoken a parable against them. So they left him, and they went away.
You know, again, he reminds them that,
And he's giving them one more chance to come to him. And the stone that the builders rejected is going to be the chief cornerstone. And as he tells this story about the vineyard and, again, a can of
Can't imagine the emotion that Jesus would have to have to tell this story. Again, that's ultimately about him and the faith that he would suffer. It is one more time and he makes his opinion.
And it's just like you and me. I don't know if there's an area where your heart has been hard towards Jesus. There's an area where you haven't wanted to give him full authority.
But this is a great reminder for us that when we have those times, we need to remember that although Jesus is holy, but he's also gracious and he's also patient.
He's loving and kind and he wants us to come back to him and he'll give us opportunity after opportunity after opportunity to do that even with this group and it shouldn't go away
Go without saying, you know, among this group of people,
that seems to have very, very hard hearts are people like Nicodemus, are people like Joseph of Arimathea, are people like Saul of Tarsus, and in the book of Acts,
The book of Acts, it says that others that were a part of this religious group would eventually come to him and come to faith. And so, again, this story that he tells
He tells before they walk away, it's not just for nothing. He knows what he's doing in his final appeal to this group. And so as we look at this, it's just a great question for
for us and hopefully conversation in your groups as you have is that, you know, have we given Jesus for authority? Is there anything we're keeping back?
It's easy to give him full authority for the things that we want.
But sometimes it's hard to give him full authority for those areas that we really don't want him to touch. We'd like to keep for ourselves. And again, it's not about anything that we
that we can do for ourselves. It's all about what Jesus did for us and we celebrate that. And we celebrate the fact that even in a passage like this where question and answer after question
question and answer are asked to Jesus to try to trip him up. Jesus continues to give even this group of people who many would run out of patience for, for probably
Probably his disciples had run out of patience for this group and just wanted Jesus to be done with them. He gives them one more chance to come to him, just like he does with us. And so as
As you have conversation around this and as you seek the Lord for the areas of your life that maybe we haven't fully given over to him, let this be a great reminder and encouragement.
encouragement that that's something that we need to do.
Why don't you pray with me?
Lord, we're just so thankful for this passage. We're thankful for the message this past weekend. And God, I just pray that you'll help us to give you full authority.
Oh, authority in our own lives. Lord, we know sometimes it's easy to keep things and hold things back. But God, I pray that you would help us to be open with them, to give them to you and to give you forth.
for authority in our own lives. And as we continue to go through the book of Mark, Lord, just continue to teach us as best you can in your way.
And we pray these things in your name. Amen.
Thanks for watching.